---
title: To be
author: DCH
layout: post
---
## Lao Tze, as told by Alan Watts

The story of the Taoist farmer illustrates a way of interpreting the dance of life’s events: The farmer’s horse ran away. That evening the neighbors gathered to commiserate with him since this was such bad-luck. He said, “May be.” The next day the horse returned, but brought with it six wild horses, and the neighbors came exclaiming at his good fortune. He said, “May be.” And then, the following day, his son tried to saddle and ride one of the wild horses, was thrown, and broke his leg. Again the neighbors came to offer their sympathy for his misfortune. He said, “May be.” The day after that, conscription officers came to the village to seize young men tor the army, but because of the broken leg the farmer’s son was rejected. When the neighbors came in to say how fortunately everything had turned out, he said, “May be.”

## Lao Tze

There is no need to run outside\\
For better seeing,\\
Nor to peer from a window. Rather abide\\
At the center of your being ….\\
Search your heart and see ….\\
The way to do is to be.

## Octavio Paz

gateway of being: open your being, awaken,\\
learn then to be, begin to carve your face,\\
develop your elements, and keep your vision\\
keen to look at my face, as I at yours,\\
keen to look full at life right through to death,\\
faces of sea, of bread, of rock, of fountain,\\
the spring of origin which will dissolve our faces\\
in the nameless face, existence without face\\
the inexpressible presence of presences ….

## Lao Tze

The Tao does nothing, yet nothing is left undone.

## George Steiner

The Greeks called “being” … parousia … The veritable translation would be a set or cluster of significations comprising “homestead, at-homeness, a standing in and by itself, a self-enclosedness, an integral presentness or thereness.” … it is just this ground that we must strive to come home (“homecoming” is, as we shall see, both the process and the goal of authentic being).

## D. H, Lawrence

It is the continuous underbelly of being human. It is the place of the mystic. The practice of being home is being home. Who ever reads me will be in the thick of the scrimmage, and if he doesn’t like it—if he wants a safe seat in the audience— let him read somebody else ….
