---
title: Touching
author: DCH
layout: post
---
## from the book

All of the preceding quotes, words on touching, on giving ourselves, our hands to each other, are a perfect setting for one of the main uses of our hands as an acupuncture practitioner, and that is the taking of the pulses. We are instructed by the classics that where blood flows, the Ch’i, the force of life itself, flows. To find a major artery, a place where the blood flows, and then, locate there the Ch’i and feel the flow of life itself, that is known as taking the pulses. It requires what Heidegger referred to as a hand “suffused and borne by a call,” having been brought to its place by “stillness.” There are twelve readings of the Ch’i to locate, each corresponding to an “orb/’ “official/’ “charge.” (See the Postscript on the Three-Heater-) Holding another’s hand with my hand to take her pulses, to “read” her life force, is of great moment. With eyes closed, silence in the room, and fingers over the radial arterial blood pulse, I attend. So does my patient. We listen together, present to the life of her life. My hands are the bodily bridge between us, as later the needle will be when it enters the point of choice to give witness, to create connection, to clear the way.

## Jacques Lusseyran, blind from the age of eight, wrote of touching:

Touching the tomatoes in the garden, and really touching them, touching the walls of the house, the materials of the curtains or a clod of earth is surely seeing them as fully as eyes can see. But it is more than seeing them, it is tuning in on them and allowing the current they hold to connect with one’s own, like electricity. To put it differently, this means an end of living in front of things and a beginning of living with them. Never mind if the word sounds shocking, for this is love. You cannot keep your hands from loving what they have really felt ….
