---
title: Poetry
author: DCH
layout: post
---

## O’Donohue

*Beannacht* (“Blessing”)

On the day when the weight deadens on your shoulders and you stumble, may the clay dance to balance you.
And when your eyes freeze behind the grey window and the ghost of loss gets in to you, may a flock of colours, indigo, red, green, and azure blue come to awaken in you a meadow of delight.
When the canvas frays in the currach of thought and a stain of ocean blackens beneath you, may there come across the waters a path of yellow moonlight to bring you safely home.
May the nourishment of the earth be yours, may the clarity of light be yours, may the fluency of the ocean be yours, may the protection of the ancestors be yours. And so may a slow wind work these words of love around you, an invisible cloak to mind your life.

(*John O’Donohue*)

# Echoes of Memory

“Have patience with everything unresolved in your heart and try to love the questions themselves as if they were locked rooms or books written in a very foreign language. Don’t search for the answers, which could not be given to you now, because you would not be able to live them. And the point is to live everything. Live the questions now. Perhaps then, someday far in the future, you will gradually, without even noticing it, live your way into the answer.”

(*Rainer Maria Rilke*, 1903, in **Letters to a Young Poet**)

## Emily Dickinson

We learned the whole of love,\\
The alphabet, the words,\\
A chapter, then the mighty book–\\
Then revelation closed.\\
But in each other’s eyes\\
An ignorance beheld\\
Diviner than the childhood’s,\\
And each to each a child.\\
Attempted to expound\\
What neither understood.\\
Alas, that wisdom is so large
