---
title: The Word
author: DCH
layout: post
---
## From the book (All sickness ...)

Is there anything that we do not have a name and a meaning for? We, human beings, name things and give meanings to everything. If I say anything, any word or a phrase, you are likely to have an association with it, a story for it, an interpretation of it, an opinion about if, an already knowing. Everything means something to us even if our meanings about the same things differ; you and I are very unlikely to listen a word, any word, brand new, putting it no place, doing with it nothing. We will seek to find a history for it, to remember the context we last heard it in. We will even get upset if we have no memory or understanding of what is said, as though we should “know.” We ordinarily listen what we already know, and put things into meanings that we made up long ago, either in our persona] or in our cultural history. Rarely do we not give our experience a ready-made name and meaning; rarely do we simply experience the wonder of human beings speaking, human beings giving expression to their experience of life, human beings making meanings, human beings making words flesh.

Two rather powerful and moving illustrations of what I’m saying, illustrations of the wonder of language, of naming, of being present to the moment of meaning’s birth, come to mind… ………….
A distinguished philosopher of language, Fernando Flores, asserts that listening grants speaking, and that speaking is close to who we arc. Listening grants speaking. Take this in. If you give me your listening, I have a place for my speaking, a partner in bringing forth a world with my words, and so my words become more than vibrations of the air and sound waves, they become worlds, conversations between human beings creating what Martin Buber called “I-Thou,” and ee cummings called “little you-i.” T. S, Eliot said,”, . . . where every word is at home, taking its place to support the others.” I pour myself into your listening. I give you my words, my worlds, my life. You home me. You, through your listening, give me dwelling. You give me residence. You, being, grant me, being.

What are we listening? In, through, between, among the words, what are we attending? To what do I harken and give back to you in my speaking into your listening? What is the dialogue of creation? To what am I listening? When the monastery bell sounds its call to silence, w here must I go to respond to the call? Am I not summoned to listen creation, to attend being, to be present to self? Is “home” in my listening? Is that not the greatest of human gifts? Give me your listening and together we bring forth the world. I give you my listening, and you speak your life. Together we create home. our life, our homecoming to being.

Herein we enter the land of paradox, the land beyond reason, the land from which we build toward the unknown:
