---
title: Quotes to focus my life
author: DCH
layout: post
---

# Contemplative Prayer

## Solitude

It is a difficult lesson to learn today, to leave one’s friends and family and deliberately practise the art of solitude for an hour or a day or a week.  For me, the break is most difficult … And yet, once it is done, I find there is a quality to being alone that is incredibly precious.  Life rushes back into the void, richer, more vivid, fuller than before!

*Anne Morrow Lindbergh*

## Contemplative

There is a contemplative in all of us, almost strangled but still alive, who craves quiet enjoyment of the Now, and longs to touch the seamless garment of silence which makes whole.

*Alan P. Tory*

## CARMELITE VOW

Let each stay in or near their own cell meditating, day and night on the law of the Lord, and vigilant in prayer, unless otherwise employed by the Holy Spirit.

## Abba Father

The Cry to God as ‘Father’ in the New Testament is not a calm acknowledgement of a universal truth about God’s abstract fatherhood.  It is the Child’s cry out of a nightmare.  It is the cry of outrage, fear, shrinking away, when faced with the horror of the ‘world’ yet not simply or exclusively protest, but trust as well.  ‘Abba Father’ all things are possible to Thee …

*Rowan Williams*

THE FIELD\\
Every curse becomes a blessing\\
to the people of God’s choosing.\\
He who spoke it shall perform it.\\
He shall bring on us the blessing,\\
though the enemy may fight.\\
My Jesus has done all things\\
right.
